* S3 -> Simple storage service. Secure durable highly scalable storage object. 
* files can be from 0 Bytes to 5TB
* unlimited storage
* bucket is basically a folder
* S3 is a universal namespace. Names must be unique globally
* Key -> name of the object 
* Value -> data of the object 
* Version ID -> important for versioning 
* Metadata -> data about data

### Special 
-> Access control list
-> Torrent 

### Consistency
* Read after write (PUTS)
* Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propagate)

### S3 features
* Tiered Storage Available
* Lifecycle Management 
* Versioning 
* Encryption
* MFA Delete
* Secure data using Access Control List and Bucket policies

### S3 standard 
99.99% availability, 99.99999999999% durability. Stored redundently across multiple device and multiple facilities. Designed to sustain the loss of 2 facilities concurrently.

### S3 infrequently access(IA)
Accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access. Lower fee then s3, but charged retrival fee. 

### S3 one zone IA 
low cost

### S3 Intelligent Tiering 
Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead.

### S3 Glacier
Glacier is for data archiving. Reliably store any amount of data. Low cost, Retrival time configurable from minutes to hours. 

### S3 Glacier Deep Archive
Lowest cost storage. Retrival time 12 hours is acceptable.

### S3 charges
* Storage
* Requests
* Storage management pricing (different tiering)
* Data transfer 
* Transfer acceleration
* Cross region replication

### Exam tips
* bucket name share common name space
* When you view your buackets ypu view them globally but you can have bucket in individual regions
* replicate the contants of buckets in different region
* can change storage classes and encryption of your object on the fly

### Restricting Bucket Access
* Bucket Policies -> Applies accross the whole bucket
* Object policies(Access control list) -> Applies to individual files
* IAM Policies to Users & Groups -> Applies to users and groups 

### Security and Encryption
* Encryption in transit is achieved by SSL/TLS
* SSE(Server side encryption) S3 managed keys -> Keys is the way of encrypting and decryption object
* AWS Key management service, managed keys - SSE-KMS
* Server side encryption with customer provided keys - SSE-C
<<<<<<< HEAD
* Also you can do Client side encryption 
=======
* Also you can do Client side encryption 

### Created Bucket policy
```
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Id": "Policy1617290788497",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1617290785685",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": {
                "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::485227117875:user/cloud_user"
            },
            "Action": "s3:ListBucket",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::roman10111992"
        },
        {
            "Sid": "Stmt1617294242801",
            "Effect": "Deny",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:PutObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::roman10111992/*",
            "Condition": {
                "StringNotEquals": {
                    "s3:x-amz-server-side-encryption": "aws:kms"
                }
            }
        }
    ]
}
``` 

### CORS setting for one bucket access to another bucket
```
[
    {
        "AllowedHeaders": [
            "Authorization"
        ],
        "AllowedMethods": [
            "GET"
        ],
        "AllowedOrigins": [
            "http://romantest10111992.s3-website-us-east-1.amazonaws.com"
        ],
        "MaxAgeSeconds": 3000 
    }
]
```

### CloudFront
Amazons content delivery network or CDN. Its a system of distributed servers which deliver webpages and other web content. 
* distribute contents with low latency
* high data transfer speeds

###### edge location
is simply a collection of servers. Geographically dispersed data centres. 

###### CloudFront Edge location is separate from AWS region/availability zones. Used for content cache. 

###### CLoudFront origin -> origin of the files the distribution will serve. S3,Ec2,ELB,Route53. 

###### CloudFront Distribution -> name given to origin and config settings. 

###### AWS has 200+ edge locations 

###### TTL -> Time to live

##### CloudFront with S3 Transfer Acceleration enables fast, secure, easy transfer of files over long distances. 

* WEB
* RTMP -> real time messaging protocol. for Fast streaming 

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

https://sarouarhossain: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@github.com/sarouarhossain/github-actions-practice.git
>>>>>>> 46cdbf3... 1st commit
